I am really excited about this section of the course.
I mean okay I was excited about all the sections of the course but this one is particularly important
to me because Linear Algebra is my favorite topic in all of mathematics.
It's really interesting.
It's really beautiful and the practical applications are huge.
Modern civilization is built on linear algebra everything from statistics to computer graphics to machine
learning to A.I. to deep learning Linear Algebra is at the heart of pretty much everything when it comes
to technology.
All right so let us begin a brief adventure through the land of linear algebra with talking about vectors
and in particular row vectors and Column vectors so a vector is really just an ordered list of numbers.
So here you see Val for examples of vectors.
Now these are five individual numbers.
This is not the number thirteen thousand two hundred fifty four.
This is a vector that contains 5 elements 1 3 2 5 4 vectors are typically indicated by square brackets
or sometimes like rounded brackets.
Here you see a two element vectors of this vector has two elements two numbers.
And again this is not a equation.
This is not minus 1 minus 14 equals minus 15.
These are two numbers in a two element vector.
You would also call this a two dimensional vector the dimensionality of a vector is the number of numbers
in that vector.
So this would be a five dimensional vector.
Now these are called row vectors.
They're called row vectors because the numbers are lined up in a row like this.
You can also have Column vectors like this.
So this is a two dimensional column vector.
This is a five dimensional column vector.
I notice that vectors don't have to contain integers or even rational numbers.
You can have irrational numbers.
You can have even complex value or imaginary numbers in here.
So this is called the algebraic definition of a vector.
There's also a geometric way of thinking about vectors and that's to think about a coordinate space
that has the same number of axes as there are elements in the vector.
So this is a two dimensional row vector so this can be represented geometrically in a two dimensional
space.
And essentially what this vector tells you is that you can represent this geometrically by going one
unit over.
So plus one unit on the first dimension and plus two units on the second dimension.
Now it looks like from the picture that I'm drawing here as if a coordinate on this plot is the same
thing as a vector but that is not the case.
The vector is a more general concept that that's not specifically tied to this particular coordinate.
One common two.
So for example all of these arrows here show the same vector one 2 even though this coordinate is obviously
not X equals one Y equals two.
But the geometric interpretation of a vector is simply that you see you go from the tail of the vector
and then over one unit and up two units because that's these numbers here and then you end at the head
of the vector.
So these are two terms that are useful for describing geometric vectors.
Now I just said that the coordinate is not necessarily the same thing as a vector.
That is true in general.
As you can see here.
But when they do coincide.
So when the head of the vector is at the coordinate then the tail is at the origin of the space.
And then we refer to this as the vector being in its standard position.
So this is what a two dimensional vector would look like.
What would a three dimensional vector look like.
Well you guessed it it would be a vector in a three dimensional space.
So we need three axes here to describe a three dimensional vector.
And what does a 17 dimensional vector look like.
Who.
Well I don't really know.
Somehow it's a line in a 17 dimensional space.
But I got a little bit confused when I started trying to draw a 17 dimensional space.
My head was spinning and I got a headache and so I just stopped here with three dimensions.
So let's see how vectors are implemented and represented in Python
nearly everything done with linear algebra on in Python is done with the NUM pi modules.
So we are definitely going to need num PI for this section of the course.
And in this video we're also going to use simplify and display and math functions because I'm going
to print out some of these vectors in later coding.
All right so let's begin.
So I'm going to start by creating a row vector.
Now in num Pi the way you create a row vector is by just specifying the numbers.
Let's say we want to create a two dimensional row vector how about let's use 4 and 2.
So each element is separated by a comma and there is one set of square brackets here to indicate that
there is one row.
So it's one row for one set of square brackets.
Now the reason why I mentioned that explicitly is because when we need to make a column vector things
are going to look a little bit more confusing.
So we have one set of square brackets here for the entire matrix and then each row requires its own
set of square brackets.
So for example to make the column vector let's say I don't know minus two and three we actually need
to use a bunch of pairs of square brackets.
So it looks a little confusing at first but you will quickly get used to it.
So essentially we are saying that this is a row and then this is the next row.
Okay.
So let me print these out and let's see how they look like when printed out so print row vac and print
call vec.
So here you see actually on the I'll do this one at a time just so it's less confusing.
So here you see 4 2.
This is a row vector.
Now I will comment this line on Comment this line and now the column vector gets printed out as minus
two and then in the next row three.
So you can see this looks like a column.
Okay.
And now I would just like to show you these two things printed out in nicer looking latex coding.
So let's see.
I think I'll leave those there so you can see for comparison.
So display math and then some dot latex and then let's see row vec.
Okay.
So now this just looks like the number 42 which is pretty confusing.
The problem here is that this is a num pi object but we are interpreting it as if it's a simple object.
So we need to convert this from num pi into simple.
And that's done with Sim if Phi.
Yeah.
Like this.
Okay.
And now this looks like more of what you'd expect for a row vector presentation.
All right.
So I'm going to copy and paste and then here you see the column vector.
And now this also looks a little bit more like what you might expect to see in a math textbook.
Of course it's all the same information as what you see printed here.
It just looks a little bit nicer.
Now I'd like to go over quickly plotting these vectors.
This is actually relatively straightforward because there's nothing really new.
It's just a slightly different language that we are using.
So let's see BLT dot plots.
Now the idea is we want to generate a vector and for convenience we will produce this vector a real
plot this vector in its standard position.
So that means we start from 0 0 and we draw the line to these coordinates here.
So therefore the x coordinates will go from zero to row back and then the first element and then the
y coordinates are gonna start from zero and then they go from to row back one.
OK.
And I'm going to make this red line for Row and let's see label.
And this is going to be a row vector and then P L that show.
So here you see.
So it's just a line.
Now what I'm going to do is copy and paste and repeat this for the column vectors call and then call.
Let's make this what colour do you think we should use.
I agree.
Let's make it blue.
And then here I will say column vector.
All right.
And then I'm just gonna spend a moment here making this a little bit nicer looking P L T dot axis.
Let's go for minus five to five on both the x and y axes.
Turn on a grid and let's see activate the legend BLT legend okay.
There you go.
The main point that I wanted to show you here is well I guess two things one is a brief reminder of
drawing lines in map plot lib and Python graphics and secondly show you that geometrically vectors are
the same or drawn the same whether they are row vectors or Column vectors.
So for algebraic purposes a row vector is not the same thing as a column vector they have a different
orientation that has important implications for doing mathematical operations like multiplication and
transformations.
And so on.
But when it comes to plotting row vectors and Column vectors are basically the same thing the exercise
for this video is basically to reproduce this plot that you see here.
This is a three dimensional plot showing these two vectors.
So three zero minus four minus one.
1 3.
Now I haven't yet taught you in this course how to create a three dimensional plot that looks like this.
So if you would like to figure this out on your own then.
Now is your chance to pause the video and switch to Python.
Because in a moment in like five seconds I'm going to show a hint to get you started.
Okay so here is the hint the hint is to basically start working from this code.
Now I'm not going to tell you exactly everything to do.
You still have some stuff to figure out on your own but this is enough to get you started.
I believe.
All right.
So now I'm going to switch to Python and essentially start by you know implementing some of this code
that I'm drawing here and then reproduce this graph so 3D plotting is by default not available in P
L T dot plot.
So that's why we need to import a separate function from a different module so that module is called
NPL tool kits dot M plot 3D.
Okay.
And then we don't actually need to import the entire module we just need the function axes 3 3 D.
There you go.
Okay.
So now I run this cell again to run this line and get this function to import.
And now let's see.
So I'm going to specify these two vectors.
I'll call this first one V and let's see that is now here.
You could create this to be a row vector or a column vector for the plotting.
It doesn't matter but for just initially setting it up in Python it's certainly easier to write out
a row vector than a column vector.
So I will set these all up to be row vectors so that's V.
I call this second vector w so and that one was minus one comma one comma three.
Okay.
So now we need to set up a figure and that's going to be appeal to that figure fig size.
So that stands for figure size peel t that fig aspect 1 and then within this figure I need to set up
an axis.
And that's going to be figured that ad sub plot.
And now I actually don't want any real subplots per say it's just going to be one main plot in the entire
axis.
So therefore I just say 1 1 1.
That means that there's going to be one row one column and I'm going to be working with the.
Well the first axis but of course in this case is the only axis.
And then here's the most important thing you say projection equals 3D.
And that is how you get a 3D projection.
Okay.
And then once you've set this code up like this then the rest is actually pretty straightforward.
So X dot plot and then so we're going to have these two vectors start from the origin.
So these will be vectors drawn in standard position.
So it's going to be zero comma v zero and then zero v 1.
And the last one is you guessed it zero comma whoops v 2.
There you go.
So let's make this a blue vector and I'm gonna make sure that we have a nice thick lines is gonna be
lined with equals three all right.
And then I'm going to draw a W in the same way just replacing all the V's with WS here.
So v v v turns to W W W and let's just already show this.
Make sure we haven't got any errors and make sure we haven't done anything foolish like draw both vectors
in the same color.
Whoops.
Now the reason why this plot doesn't really look like the plot that I showed in the slides is that I
showed a plot with the origin in the center and that's generally the best way to show these kinds of
plots with the origin in the center.
You can only see here the origin is somewhere.
Well it's uh this point here at somewhere around.
Well it's this point here but you can see that you know zero is not at the middle of any of these three
axes so to set that we write X that sets underscore X Lim 3D.
So this is slightly different code from how you have to setup the axes in a two dimensional plot which
I showed you here set the x limits.
Let's go for how about minus five to plus five all around.
So this is going to be X Y and Z all right.
So this is looking better and now just to like visually anchor these points a little bit more.
I want to draw some guidelines in here and those guidelines are basically just gonna be the lines that
go across these zero coordinates on all three axes.
So let's see X dot plot and then I want the first line to go across the x axis.
So the X axis is going to go minus five to plus five the y axis doesn't change and I should say the
line on the x axis are the y axis and the Z axis also doesn't change okay.
And this is going to be a dash line.
And I want the color to be something like gray like this.
All right.
So you see that draws the one line here and then the other two guidelines are essentially the same.
So I will do a bit of copy paste except now we just move these things around.
So this is going to be not moving on the x axis not changing on the z axis only changing on the y axis.
And then of course we have the same thing for the third line going across the z axis.
All right.
Very very nice.
Now we see these two three dimensional vectors in a three dimensional space in this video.
You learned about vectors and the algebraic and geometric definitions of vectors and you learned how
to make 3D plots in python in the next video.
You're going to learn how to work with vectors including adding and subtracting and scalar multiplying
vectors.
So see you in the next video.